---
motion_title: Standing Orders Committee Report
amendment_number: 6
---
Amendment to A1: Standing Order Committee (SOC) Report
With respect to: Motion - Vote of No Confidence in SOC Member

This motion states that decisions were taken at an Emergency Meeting of Standing Orders Committee (SOC) to amend their Standing Orders, in order to enable them to call a Vote of No Confidence towards one of the committee’s members.

SOC Standing Orders state that changes to their Standing Orders can only be made at a Formal Meeting of SOC (4.c).

They also state (6) that emergency business requiring the Suspension of Standing Orders can only be discussed ‘if all members of SOC agree’, and that business discussed at an Emergency Meeting cannot include ‘any element of point for’ of the Standing Orders, which includes any amending of SOC Standing Orders.

The entire process was therefore clearly in breach of SOC Standing Orders.

SOC has no powers to amend its Standing Orders in the manner described in the motion.

SOC has no powers to suspend or expel members under its Standing Orders.

It is concerning that the body responsible for upholding the Constitution and Standing Orders of the Party should  breach its own Standing Orders.

It is concerning to see SOC members reacting in such an extreme way to an entirely reasonable request to adjust SOC’s conference schedule to enable one of its members to participate in a particular session.

Conference instructs SOC to explore a more appropriate way to deal with internal disputes other than to seek the removal of its members from the committee.
