---
motion_title: Standing Orders Committee Report
amendment_number: 3
---

Maintaining integrity of GPEW's internal democracy

Amendment to A01:

In the section "Late Motions", insert at the end of the section:

Conference Addendum: maintaining the integrity of  GPEW's internal democracy

Conference notes that the inclusion of Motion G01 in the agenda has resulted in an unprecedented series of attacks on Standing Orders Committee. Instead of coming to Conference to debate the motion in good faith, some members have sadly chosen to accuse SOC of being ideologically driven, and are seeking to remove the motion from the agenda on the grounds that it should have been ruled Out of Order.

Members of SOC have had it insinuated to them that these members are willing to derail Conference altogether rather than allow Motion G01 to be heard.

Conference notes that at its meeting of 11th February 2022, SOC dedicated a formal meeting to considering Motion G01. At that time SOC agreed unanimously that the motion overall was in order, and agreed by majority to parts of the motion being Out of Order.

Conference understands that SOC uses the Standing Orders for Conduct of Conference (SOCC) to determine if a motion is in order, or partially or wholly Out of Order. SOC also uses SOCC to determine if a proposed Late Motion has met the criteria for a Late Motion.

In the interest of setting the record straight, Conference acknowledges SOC's majority agreed analysis of the Late Motion against SOCC's provisions as follows:

C2.2 Other than in exceptional circumstances, the topic of the Late Motion must have arisen or changed since the Pre-Agenda deadline. SOC will have discretion to judge whether there are exceptional circumstances which merit the waiving of the requirements of the standard timetable for motions to conference.

The pre-agenda deadline was 3rd December 2021. The synopsis of the Late Motion states: "GPEW accepts the damning results of the 25th January 2022 Council of Europe report “Combating rising hate against LGBTI people in Europe”. GPEW accepts that it has been subject to hard-line anti-trans activism for some time; issues cannot be tackled without understanding; and oppression of marginalised groups intersect."

The date of the trigger event is after the pre-agenda deadline, giving SOC discretion to judge whether the circumstances warrant acceptance of the motion. It was the view of SOC that the combination of this trigger event and the rising conflict around transphobia within the Party warranted the hearing of a Late Motion on the matter.

Conference notes that SOC accepting a Late Motion does not constitute SOC's approval or endorsement of that motion, only that SOC has applied the requirements of SOCC to the motion. Conference is satisfied that SOC's analysis is valid, and that Motion G01 qualifies as a Late Motion.

Conference notes that the rules determining a motion to be partially or wholly Out of Order are laid down in E2 of SOCC, and notes SOC's majority agreed analysis for the motion against those criteria as follows:

a) contrary to the Constitution;

SOC found the line "Conference instructs GPRC to suspend signatories of the WHRC/Women’s Declaration International" to be Out of Order under this clause on the grounds that it directed GPRC (Green Party Regional Council) to use a power that SOC considered to be reserved to GPRC.

Some references have since been made to 4.ix of the Constitution: "As Green Party members we are committed to attempting, wherever possible, to resolve disagreement through mutual respect and discussion .. A diversity of opinions is likely to exist within any organisation, and political difference should not automatically be the basis for expulsion of a member".

However, the motion as it stands does not allow for the automatic expulsion of a member on the grounds of political difference. If passed, it would remain for Disciplinary Committee (DC) to investigate claims of a member having signed the Declaration.

Furthermore, the existence of Disciplinary Committee, the Code of Conduct, and GPRC's powers to suspend and expel members indicates that the constitution expects and allows for situations in which disagreements between members be settled through a disciplinary route.

“b) retrospective in their effect;”

The motion as it stands has two effects:

1. an instruction to Green Party Executive to provide a specified training.
2. an amendment to the Code of Conduct.

Neither of these effects attempts to overwrite something that happened in the past, and so cannot reasonably be described as retrospective in effect.

The objection has been raised that a member who signed the Declaration in 2020 could therefore be disciplined for something that was not against the Code of Conduct at the time. This is true, but is a decision for Disciplinary Committee.. Conference notes that Disciplinary Committee already applies the current Code of Conduct to complaints where a member's action took place before it was sanctionable under the Code of Conduct.

In simple terms, it is a legitimate exercise of Disciplinary Committee to decide on the application of the Code of Conduct to a member's past behaviour. But that is not an effect of this motion; the motion's effect is merely to amend the Code of Conduct to make such a sanction possible.

“c) ambiguous;”

It was never argued that any part of the motion is ambiguous.

“d) vague;”

It was never argued that any part of the motion is vague.



“e) trivial;”

It was never argued that any part of this motion is trivial.

“f) requiring no consequential action by the Party;”

SOC agreed unanimously that the word "permanently" in the line "those members who do or have done so should be suspended from the party permanently" requires no consequential action by the Party,  because a permanent suspension would be an expulsion without being clearly named.

“g) substantially changing policy areas without having passed through the agreed process of consultation;”

It was never argued that any part of this motion substantially changes policy areas without having passed through the agreed process of consultation.

“h) having complex implications for other areas of policy without having passed through the agreed process of consultation;”

It was never argued that any part of this motion has complex implicatons for other areas of policy.

“i) seeking to significantly amend the principles passed in a policy motion or Voting Paper less than one year and nine months previously;”

The motion is not a policy motion.

“j) seeking to re-present a policy proposal which has been debated and defeated at Conference less than one year and nine months previously (see Appendix A), except where it is proposed by GPRC and agreed by SOC that the specific exception to that requirement shall be made in respect of an area of Party Policy for which urgent need to update or clarify the policy outweighs the normal consideration of procedure;”

The motion is not a policy motion.

“k) seeking to overturn, or fundamentally amend, the result of a party-wide ballot held under the provisions of the Constitution, or to initiate a new party-wide ballot seeking to do so, within two years of the result of the original ballot being announced. An exception to this should be allowed if the motion is submitted by GPRC having been supported by a 2/3 majority vote at a properly convened
meeting of GPRC, on the grounds that GPRC believe that exceptional circumstances render it necessary to revisit the original decision in order to protect the well-being of the Party.”

The motion does not concern a Party-wide ballot.

“l) with advice from PDC, a DVP or VP that is contrary to Appendix A”

The motion is not a VP (Voting Paper) or DVP (Draft Voting Paper).

“m) a VP that is contrary to the Philosophical Basis, and to existing policies in PSS, unless it contains proposals to amend them accordingly.”

The motion is not a VP.

In light of the above, Conference is satisfied that SOC's majority analysis holds.

Conference also reaffirms the importance of the provision in the Party’s Code of Conduct for Members at section 7.1, that members ‘have a general duty to respect decisions made by the National Party, any local or Regional Party or any other Party body through the democratic process.' Where there are, inevitably, disagreements with decisions made by SOC, they shall be aired and settled at Conference, in the appropriate forum and in a respectful spirit towards those volunteering their time and energy to help in the running of Conference business. Accusations that members of SOC, or any Party body, are acting in bad faith, or as partisans for a particular cause, or attempts to lobby members of SOC internally in order to change their minds with insults or innuendo, are corrosive to this principle. Conference refuses to countenance such behaviour within the Green Party.

Conference therefore invites all attendees to debate Motion G01 in good faith.
