---
motion_title: Standing Orders Committee Report
amendment_number: 5
---

Rule G01 OoO (MH Version)

In section 1 of the SOC Report, in the section headed ‘Late Motions’ delete:

“We received one late motion which we have been able to include in the Final Agenda.”

And replace with:

One late motion was received that does not constitute a valid late motion in that:

1. The motion is concerned with the Women’s Independence Declaration which existed prior to the
opening of the Late Motions Forum and not the Council of Europe Report published on the 25 th
January 2022 which is used as the trigger event.

2. The Council of Europe report is referenced in the synopsis which does not form part of the
motion. The Council of Europe report of 25 th January 2022 is not identified in the text of the motion.
(The in text reference to a Council of Europe report since it does not identify the report should have been ruled Out of Order as ‘vague’).

3. The Council of Europe Report of 25 th January 2022 referred to in the synopsis does not reference
the Women’s Independence Declaration which might have provided a link between the two.
If the trigger event had been valid, then the motion should be ruled Out of Order as:

4. The motion is contrary to section 4(ix) of the Constitution of the GPEW:
“As Green Party members we are committed to attempting, wherever possible, to resolve
disagreement through mutual respect and discussion .. A diversity of opinions is likely to exist within
any organisation, and political difference should not automatically be the basis for expulsion of a
member..”

and to section 12.1 of the Members Code of Conduct:

“12.1 As the Green Party welcomes people from a wide range of backgrounds, members may
encounter people who hold differing political or philosophical worldviews. Freedom of belief and the right to change that belief is a fundamental human right. Members should therefore show tolerance
and respect towards people that hold political or philosophical worldviews that differ from their
own..”

And will accordingly be removed from the agenda for this conference.
