---
motion_title: Standing Orders Committee report
amendment_number: 9
# Looking for the amendment status? Update it directly from the motion page!
---
Precis of Vote of No Confidence in the Returning Officer, 14.08.2022

Below

‘There is no clause stating that SOC rulings may be invalidated by consultation with previous Co-Convenors of SOC. The final say on SOC rulings is made at and by Conference. SOC's rulings on the constitution are subject to approval by Conference via the SOC Report, and any attendee may submit an amendment asking Conference to over-rule a particular SOC decision.

Consequently, SOC's view is that it can not retain confidence in an ERO who declares its interpretation of the constitution invalid on the basis of consultation with previous SOC Co-Convenors.’

Insert an ADDENDUM from the former ERO:

‘This misunderstands what I said. I had my own perception as to the understanding of the constitution, however being cautious I checked that my understanding was the same as other former members of SOC, people also familiar with the constitution and its interpretation. Once that understanding was confirmed I did not seek to ‘invalidate’ the SOC decision, I informed them in a private e-mail that my own conscience could not allow me to follow their ruling, but that since they had made a proposal that would not compromise my conscience that option was available to them. They chose not to follow that option but to sack me instead, rather a nuclear option at that stage in the election.’

Delete

‘SOC would like to emphasise that the current ERO has contributed a great deal to the Party, and SOC respects the work he has done during his own terms on SOC. It is with regret that this vote was called and carried, but SOC can not retain confidence in an ERO who declares its interpretations to be unconstitutional.’

Sentence 1 is patronising and I do not want it, sentence 2 repeats the misunderstanding in the previous two paragraphs.
