---
motion_title: Land Use Voting Paper
amendment_number: 1b
# Looking for the amendment status? Update it directly from the motion page!
---

Insert at the end of point b of HO401 “(LD301)”.
Industry
IN401 to IN404 currently read:
IN401 The National Spatial Strategy will ensure individual planning and investment decisions add up to a national plan that is socially and environmentally sustainable.
IN402 The national spatial strategy will replace the current failed market mechanisms with a planning system that it is locally and democratically accountable, not to banks or speculative financial institutions. This will prioritise retention of agriculture, commonly owned land and wildspace in the UK. We support extension of these land designations (rather than reclassification to reduce them, such as being proposed for the Green Belt in many locations) in the UK. This strategy will focus on urban regeneration, reversing the current trend to convert rural sites to industrial and urban areas.
IN403 This will fill the void created by the revocation of the Regional Spatial Strategies, so that the 'Duty to Cooperate' principle extends to a national level, ensuring that the overall nature of development is both socially and environmentally sustainable.
IN404 This will include incentives to financially prioritise the refurbishment of existing buildings and suitable brownfield sites, and support the transition of rural communities from commuter towns to sustainable communities. New green jobs will be actively created by prioritising development of sustainable rural livelihoods and locally sustainable enterprises across the UK rather than speculative development focused in existing job-rich areas. This will include incentives to promote clustering of zero carbon, zero waste enterprises in new social enterprise zones – to encourage sustainable enterprises to replicate and co-locate.
Insert into IN401-IN403, the word “Economic” before “Spatial Strategy”; re-word IN402-404 so that it reflects the proposed Land Use policy and tidies up the wording, merges IN403 and 404 and re-numbers accordingly, so that the paragraphs now read:
“IN401 The National Economic Spatial Strategy will ensure individual planning and investment decisions add up to a national plan that is socially and environmentally sustainable.
IN402 The National Economic Spatial Strategy will replace the current failed market mechanisms with a planning system that is accountable, not to banks or speculative financial institutions, but democratically to communities. This economic spatial strategy will, along with land use strategies (LD501), steer the planning system to deliver the key outcomes laid out in LD200. These new strategies will fill the void created by the revocation of the Regional Spatial Strategies, so that the 'Duty to Cooperate' principle extends to a national level.
IN403 The National Economic Spatial Strategy will:
•	Create new green jobs by prioritising development of sustainable rural livelihoods (See CY400) and locally sustainable enterprises across the UK rather than speculative development focused in existing job-rich areas.
•	Delivering industrial activities required for rapid transition to zero carbon.
•	Support the transition of rural communities from commuter towns or retirement towns, to more self-reliant, diverse sustainable communities.
•	promote the clustering of zero carbon, zero waste enterprises in new social enterprise zones.
•	Design national and regional resilience into our economy.
•	Prioritise the refurbishment of existing buildings and suitable brownfield sites to deliver new houses and business spaces.”.
LP407 currently reads: “Land designated as Green Belt should be used to contain urban sprawl, to maintain the separation of settlements, to protect prime agricultural land around settlements, to encourage urban regeneration and compact towns and cities, and to complement the ecological and cultural value of other designations. Green Belt should be used to make the sustainable built environment more resilient to flooding, make space for biodiversity, agriculture, energy production and sustainable transport in line with land use prioritisation set out in LD401. The local authority role in reviewing and protecting their green belt is set out in LP510.”.
Replace the penultimate sentence with “Green Belt should be used to increase the built environment’s resilience to flooding and to sustain abundant and diverse wildlife, produce food, capture renewable energy and deliver sustainable transport in line with land use prioritisation set out in LD401” so that it reads
LP407 Land designated as Green Belt should be used to contain urban sprawl, to maintain the separation of settlements, to protect prime agricultural land around settlements, to encourage urban regeneration and compact towns and cities, and to complement the ecological and cultural value of other designations. Green Belt should be used to increase the built environment’s resilience to flooding; and to sustain abundant and diverse wildlife, produce food, capture renewable energy and deliver sustainable transport in line with land use prioritisation set out in LD401. The local authority role in reviewing and protecting their green belt is set out in LP510.
In IN408, delete the words “(see LD203-6”) and insert references to the new Land chapter, so that it reads: “IN408 Current land rights encourage unsustainable industrial activity. A Land Value Tax would redress this problem. (See EC780-782, LD303 and LD506).”.
IN615 currently reads, “Numerous treaties designed for eco-crisis management have failed to bring far reaching improvements. The problem is not one of understanding but of enforcement. This role needs to be carried out at the national level (see PL410) and aided by a new European Environmental Agency (EEA). As well as enforcement, the EEA should aim to provide well researched information and to establish standards. It must be well resourced to ensure that standards can be enforced. Funds should be diverted from the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP). (TNCs - see also IP400 to IP431)”
Redraft the last four sentences of IN615, to reflect that we are no longer part of the EU, so that it reads: “IN615 Numerous treaties designed for eco-crisis management have failed to bring far reaching improvements. The problem is not one of understanding but of enforcement. The Environment Agency must have sufficient resources to provide well researched information and enforce established standards. The Common’s Trusts (see LD300) will also have an enforcement role to ensure land is appropriately stewarded.”
Local Planning & the Built Environment
Delete LP407, “LP407 The Green Party strongly supports the provision of green belts to contain urban sprawl, to maintain the separation of settlements, to protect prime agricultural land around settlements, to encourage urban regeneration and compact towns and cities, and to complement the ecological and cultural value of other designations listed in LP405. The Green Party would put a greater emphasis on the green belt’s use for wider sustainable built environment considerations such as flooding, biodiversity, agriculture, energy production and sustainable transport.The local authority role in reviewing and protecting their green belt is set out in LP510.”
Insert a new LP407, to reflect the Green Party’s land use prioritisation:
“LP407 Land designated as Green Belt should be used to contain urban sprawl, to maintain the separation of settlements, to protect prime agricultural land around settlements, to encourage urban regeneration and compact towns and cities, and to complement the ecological and cultural value of other designations. Green Belt should be used to make the sustainable built environment more resilient to flooding, make space for biodiversity, agriculture, energy production and sustainable transport in line with land use prioritisation set out in LD401. The local authority role in reviewing and protecting their green belt is set out in LP510.”.
Amend the second sentence of LP412 to reference LD504, so that LP412 reads:
“LP412 Planning use classes should be used to ensure that the built environment meets the needs of the community. The index of classes will be set at national level and may include new use classes such as a use class for holiday homes (see HO401) and for categories of non built-environment land (see LD504). Bioregional/regional strategies will include quotas for each use class to be determined via citizens assemblies and reviewed every two years.”
LP413 currently reads, “All planning applications will be required to submit whole life carbon and energy calculations. These are to include embodied carbon and energy in both the up-front construction and anticipated maintenance, as well as the operational carbon and energy of the building in use. Embodied and operational carbon to be reported separately in kgCO2e/m2 and kgCO2e/m2/yr respectively. All planning permissions will be granted subject to a pre-commencement condition requiring updated whole life carbon and energy calculations based on construction information.”.
Amend the first sentence of LP413 to include land use change emissions, the relevant references (LD501, 502, 504 and 505, EC777), so that LP412 reads:
“LP413 All planning applications will be required to submit whole life carbon (including land use change emissions, where relevant, see LD501, 502, 504 and 505) and energy calculations (see EC777). These are to include embodied carbon and energy in both the up-front construction and anticipated maintenance, as well as the operational carbon and energy of the building in use. Embodied and operational carbon to be reported separately in kgCO2e/m2 and kgCO2e/m2/yr respectively. All planning permissions will be granted subject to a pre-commencement condition requiring updated whole life carbon and energy calculations based on construction information.”.
Insert into current LP505, “and land use strategies”, and “and local levels”, so that it reads:
“LP505 Local planning authorities have a duty to implement their Local Plans within the constraints of the existing built environment and land they oversee, and within carbon budgets and land use strategies set at national, regional and local levels. This provision should meet the need identified in housing strategies (see HO401-409).”.
Delete from current LP506, “, for example by integrating natural habitats into solar farms or on rooftops”, so that it reads:
“LP506 As far as possible, the demand for new urban land should be minimised through a combination of demand-reduction policies (see for example HO401) and through optimising densities. Land value taxation would create incentives to bring forward empty brownfield sites for development, and local authorities would be given stronger powers to tackle remaining land hoarding (see LP516) . Any development of present settlements should be confined within the existing boundaries where possible, and where a loss of countryside is deemed necessary it should go on the least sensitive land that is most accessible by public transport, cycling and walking to existing economic and social facilities. The maximum environmental value should also be obtained on land used for development.”.
LP514 currently reads “TheGreen Party would empower local authorities to use streamlined compulsory purchase powers to assemble areas with fragmented ownership, and to buy the land at existing use value. We would also support the allocation of more land for self-build.The Green Party would explore how the Land Bank and Community Land Trust models developed in theUSA could be used to maximise the benefits from land and property acquisition.”.
Insert a sentence into LP514, to make it clear that the allocation of land for self-build is part of the overall area of land allocated for new build and not in addition, so that it reads:
“LP514 The Green Party would empower local authorities to use streamlined compulsory purchase powers to assemble areas with fragmented ownership, and to buy the land at existing use value. A greater proportion of land allocated to new homes should be made available for self-build. The Green Party would explore how the Land Bank and Community Land Trust models developed in the USA could be used to maximise the benefits from land and property acquisition.”.
LP516 currently reads,
“LP516 Where owners of land designated for development in the local plan fail to bring it forward for development in a timely manner, local authorities should exercise compulsory purchase orders in the public interest, to prevent land hoarding.”
Replace with the following,so that it reads,
“LP516 To minimise land hoarding, local authorities should exercise compulsory purchase orders in the public interest. See also LD508.”
