---
motion_title: Land Use Voting Paper
amendment_number: 2e
status: defeated
# Looking for the amendment status? Update it directly from the motion page!
---

- from LD508, the words "- As a mechanism of last resort Commons Trusts will have enforcement powers”

END OF LAND CHAPTER

Changes that need to be made to align with the proposed Land chapter.

Climate Emergency

CC121 currently reads: “CC121 To drive change throughout society the UK should combine a carbon tax and dividend with publicity campaigns and possible carbon rationing. For instance, it should require all adverts for high carbon products, including food, to carry an ‘environmental health warning’. The carbon tax would reflect all emissions of greenhouse gases, not just CO2. It should have a progressive element to deter high individual emitters.”.
Change the penultimate sentence and add a sentence to CC121, so that it reads: “CC121 To drive change throughout society the UK should combine a carbon tax and dividend with publicity campaigns and possible carbon rationing. For instance, it should require all adverts for high carbon products, including food, to carry an 'environmental health warning'. The carbon tax would reflect most emissions of all greenhouse gases (not just CO2). See EC777 for exceptions to the carbon tax. It should have a progressive element to deter high individual emitters.”.

Delete CC141, “CC141 It should also convert to less intensive agriculture and convert grassland to forest where possible. There should be transitional arrangements and compensation for farmers where appropriate.”.

Add to CC300 the word “Land”, so that it reads: “CC300 The Climate Emergency is also covered in the following chapters of the PSS:
•	Countryside
•	Economics
•	Education
•	Energy
•	Europe
•	Food and Agriculture
•	Forestry
•	Housing
•	Industry
•	International
•	Land
•	Local Planning and Built Environment
•	Marine and Coastal
•	Pollution
•	Transport

Crime and Justice

Insert reference to the Land Chapter into CJ361, so it reads: “CJ361 While the protection of the environment would be promoted in accordance with the principles set out herein, a strong legal base will make it both easier and more desirable to establish community-based and regional forums for the settlement of environmental disputes and for preventing environmental harm by means of voluntary agreement. Third party mediation of multi-group disputes, where there are genuine conflicts of interest in the community, are now well-developed techniques and should be adopted in preference to authoritarian planning decision making structures (See LD306). Coercion should be a last resort.”.

Countryside

Insert references to the Land Chapter into CY400 so that it reads, “CY400 The Green Party will seek to integrate environmental, social and economic objectives in all areas of countryside and rural policy, with the overall aims to:
a) Revitalise the economy and life of rural communities;
b) Legislate to reform land tenure and access to land. (see LD300);
c) Legislate to stop further destruction of wildlife habitats, the soil, the landscape, ancient monuments and our countryside heritage;
d) Enact policies that will make the whole countryside more hospitable to wildlife, entailing increased protection for wildlife and habitats and delivery of meaningful landscape-scale conservation and restoration;
e) Increase the area and quality of woods, orchards, agroforestry, hedges and other tree cover (see Food and Agriculture and Land Use Chapters);
f) Ensure food security, integrating human health and wellbeing, environmental protection, animal welfare and decent livelihoods for farmers, farm workers and growers;
g) Reduce greenhouse gas emissions and develop appropriate renewable energy especially at local and community level.”.

Delete paragraphs CY520-527 (Agriculture) “CY520 Agriculture forms an important part of the rural economy, producing food and other products, generating income and providing employment. Agricultural land makes up a large part of the countryside and rural landscape and supports diverse wildlife habitats. Green Party policies on Food and Agriculture aim to improve farming livelihoods, provide safe and nutritious food, improve long-term food security and increase regional and local self-reliance in food.
CY521 The Green Party will support shorter supply chains and direct links between producers and consumers to maximise income generation in rural areas and to supply healthier, fresher food. We will discourage large-scale agribusiness, processors and retailers which take large profit margins, concentrate jobs in urban centres and cause the closure of small, local retailers.
CY522 The Green Party will discourage the amalgamation of farms, support family farms, improve access to land for new entrants to farming and horticulture and favour the setting up of sustainable, small-scale and labour-intensive enterprises and their associated dwellings. We support sustainable diversification and multiple use of agricultural land and buildings, for instance for appropriate renewable energy, tourism, recreational pursuits and low-impact enterprises.
CY523 The Green Party will support small-scale, environmentally benign farming systems that protect the soil, biodiversity and water resources, minimise greenhouse gas emissions and pollution, support ‘joined-up' wildlife habitats and provide secure jobs in rural communities. We support farming and land management which conserve and, where appropriate, increase woods, orchards, agroforestry, hedges and other trees. We will phase out ‘factory farming' and discourage farming systems highly dependent on fossil fuels and imported feed that have large-scale environmental impacts and tend to reduce rural income and employment.
CCY524 Soil is the biggest pool of carbon stored in the land, and is an important wildlife habitat in its own right. Soil is also an essential resource without which human civilisation cannot survive, yet farming is too often responsible for depletion and degradation of the soil. Through legislation and support for agri-environment schemes, the Green Party will ensure that all farming and land uses protect and enhance the soil. CY525 Agriculture accounts for a large proportion of the pollution of watercourses with nitrates, phosphates and sediments from fertilisers, inappropriate application and disposal of manure and from soil erosion. Release and deposition of nitrogen compounds pose threats to biodiversity. Pesticide spraying can threaten watercourses and the health of farm workers, rural communities and consumers. The Green Party will support a strategy to reduce release of nitrogen compounds and other pollutants, will increase monitoring of watercourses and enforce penalties for pollution of watercourses and unsafe or inappropriate use of pesticides.
CY526 The Green Party will work towards replacing the Common Agricultural Policy, and while it still exists, support a radical reorientation of the CAP to support sustainable farming systems that protect and enhance wildlife habitats and biodiversity, ensure fair and secure farm incomes, support sustainable and thriving rural communities and promote regional and local self-reliance in food.
CY527 The Green Party welcomes the concept of agri-environment schemes such as Environmental Stewardship and initiatives such as catchment-sensitive farming, where agricultural support may be used for environmentally sympathetic ends. We support extension of the concept to the whole of the countryside. We encourage further investment as having a positive role to play in securing the future of the countryside.”.

Economy

EC777 currently reads: “EC777 A carbon tax will be introduced whereby a steadily rising price will be placed on sources of all greengas emissions, including agricultural emissions and those embedded in imports . Part of the tax revenue will be paid out as dividends to UK residents, while the rest will be used to promote sustainable behaviours, investment in zero carbon solutions, and meeting international climate obligations.”

Change the first sentence and insert a second sentence so that it reads:
“EC777 A carbon tax will be introduced whereby a steadily rising price will be placed on sources of greenhouse gas emissions in the UK, and those embedded in imports . The exception to this will be all (non-built environment) emissions from land and livestock management, which will be discouraged via land management investment support (see FA301, FA602, LD505), or restricted via the planning system (see LD502, LD504). Part of the tax revenue will be paid out as dividends to UK residents, while the rest will be used to promote sustainable behaviours, investment in zero carbon solutions, and meeting international climate obligations.”

In EC781, insert the word “stewardship”, replace ‘farming subsidies’ with ‘land management investment and support’ and replace the word “landowners” with “land holders”, so that it reads:

“EC781 There will be no exemptions for different land uses from this policy. Where stewardship obligations are placed on land holders to conserve wildlife habitats, archaeological sites or other landscape features, the capital value of the land may be assessed as zero or negative, and LVT would then become a subsidy. The effect of LVT on UK Agriculture will be managed through changes to land management investment and support, in line with objectives laid out in the Food & Agriculture Chapter. LVT will be introduced gradually over a number of years. As a transitional measure, where land necessarily attached to a domestic dwelling was subject to a mortgage on the day the tax was introduced, the tax would apply only to the value of the land net of the mortgage. Owner occupiers aged over 65 years will not be exempt, but they will be able to ‘roll over’ payments until the home is sold.”

Energy

Delete “EN015 Biofuels will be sustainably sourced within the UK (see Forestry policy).”
And replace with: “EN015 Biofuels will be sustainably sourced within the UK, and therefore the quantity available will be limited. (See FR700).”
Add new policy “EN017 Solar Photovoltaic will largely be deployed on roofs. Solar farms will only be deployed on land where there is no better use of that land (see LD401).”.
