---
motion_title: Land Use Voting Paper
amendment_number: 2f
status: defeated
# Looking for the amendment status? Update it directly from the motion page!
---

In the sentence, “Replace with the following, so that it reads,

“LP516 To minimise land hoarding, local authorities should exercise compulsory purchase orders in the public interest. See also LD304 and LD508.”, delete “See also LD304 and LD508.” (MH – LD304 is not referenced – need to check)”
Amend first sentence of LP517 to account for master land registry policy being in LD301 and add cross references, so that LP517 reads:
“LP517 For transparency the Land Registry will be publicly owned, complete and open to inspection (see LD301). Local authorities would also be required to publish open data on planning permissions with some details of the plans. All other public authorities that collect data on transactions and options agreements would also be required to publish this in an open format. All public authorities considering disposal of land assets would be required to do so transparently, publishing its intention to do so, publishing key financial information after the land has been sold, and exploring options for other public or community bodies to purchase the land (see also HO514).”
Marine and Coastal
Delete “MC204 All values, rules, and management systems that are employed to best sustain our land area can and should be similarly deployed in the marine environment.
So, for instance, conservation designations, environmental impact assessments, planning regulations, etc, should have an equivalent within the ocean.”.
Insert a new “MC204 The planning system should cover all land in the UK, and this should include UK territorial water and UK exclusive economic Zone. This means that conservation designations, environmental impact assessments, planning regulations, etc, would equally apply to UK land as UK waters. (See also LD501 and LD504).”.
Delete “MC307 The Green Party would seek large-scale reform of the Crown Estate (which currently has a monopoly on the sea bed around the UK, and is required to administer this on a purely commercial basis), devolving its powers to more locallybased levels of accountability within government and changing its remit to emphasise long-term environmental sustainability of our marine environment.”.
Insert a new “MC307 As set out in LD300, the Crown Estate (which currently manages the sea bed around the UK), would be replaced by Commons Trusts. The Trusts would manage the land and sea for their long term sustainability.”.
Delete “MC311, The Green Party would ensure that conservation of the marine environment in the Overseas Territories is funded to a level equal to its global significance.”
Insert a new “MC311 The Green Party would ensure that conservation of the marine environment in the Overseas Territories is funded to a level equal to its global significance. This will in part happen by the creation of Commons Trusts (see LD300) for each oversea’s territory along similar lines to Commons Trusts created for the UK.”
NB Policies MC370-372 inclusive do not currently exist
Insert a new paragraph MC371, “The issuing of licences for Wind and Marine Energy will become the responsibility of the Commons Trusts (see LD300) which will have to balance competing outcomes laid out in LD200 when making such decisions and specifying conditions.”.
From MC376, delete the phrase, “We currently know relatively little about the sea bed, except that its biology is extremely diverse and its physics can be stormy. Therefore,” and capitalise the next word, so that it reads:
“MC376 Installations should not be dumped or abandoned at sea. As a matter of principle, operators should expect when constructing an installation, that they will be later responsible for completely removing it.”.
Renumber current MC373-378, MC373-377, respectively.
Natural Resources and Waste Management
In NR421, replace “the State” with “the Commons Trusts”, so that it reads:
“NR421 All mineral rights will be held in trust by the Commons Trusts (see LD300) on behalf of the communities which occupy the land or, in the case of off-shore rights, which border it. Planning consent to exploit minerals will be subject to both local and national agreement. It will be a requirement of such consent that the environmental impact of any work is minimised and for extraction activities to maximise the resources obtained. The affected land should be returned to a similar or improved ecological status.”.
Public Administration and Government
Make minor textual changes to PA108 and add reference to the Land chapter, so that it reads:
PA108 Citizenship should be viewed as a set of rights and responsibilities based on residence in and commitment to a community or geographical area. Those rights include the right to basic material security and shelter, and participation in the democratic process (See also LD100). The age of majority (at which full criminal responsibility and the power to make contracts is acquired) should be reduced to 16, to clarify the age at which children become adults in the eyes of the law, with accompanying full citizenship rights and responsibilities.
Tourism
Amend and also update the reference in TM043 from “EC793” to “EC781”, so that it reads:
“Some areas have many second homes/holiday flats, which are only occupied for a few weeks a year. This produces very limited benefit to the local economy. It is detrimental to the local communities, pushing house prices higher and pricing local people out of the market. The policy of applying a Land Value Tax shall have no reduction or exemption for properties which are left vacant. It will deter the ownership econd 'holiday' homes and encourage greater use of underused buildings (See 781).”.
Transport
Delete “TR022 These strategies would influence demand both at point of use and indirectly through promotion, information, taxation and research. In the longer term this would also include the use of land use controls. They would also act on all aspects of transport and institutional infrastructure, e.g. regulations and subsidies.”
Insert a new “TR022 These strategies would influence demand both at point of use and indirectly through promotion, information, taxation and research. Local and regional land plans must take this into account. (See LD500). These strategies would also act on all aspects of transport and institutional infrastructure, e.g. regulations and subsidies.
Rights and Responsibilities
In RR406, insert a reference to the Land chapter, so that it reads:
“RR406 The Green Party supports communities to put in place their own local constitutions, or Community Bills of Rights. The Green Party recognises:
•	the right to local self government
•	the rights of nature to exist and to flourish, and
•	the community’s right to place legal limitations on corporate legal privileges, including the right to declare a company’s actions unlawful and prohibited, where that company proposes to carry out an activity in the community which would violate that community’s rights (See LD306).”.
Workers Rights
In WR203 insert a reference to the Land chapter, so that it reads, “Workplace democracy will help us to attain these long-term aims. However, it must go hand in hand with other reforms that deal with discrimination, the power of the state, the ownership of land (See LD200) and the control of information. All these influence our ability to control our working lives, which in turn affects an individual's ability to care for the planet.”.
No changes are proposed in this Voting Paper to the Records on Policy Statements or the 2019 General Election Manifesto.
