---
motion_title: Peace Security & Defence Voting Paper
amendment_number: 3
# Looking for the amendment status? Update it directly from the motion page!
---
Replace paragraph:

PSD533 The Green Party believes that the UK should join the UN Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons  (TPNW) which came into force in January 2021. In doing so the UK would  join the majority of countries in committing to work to remove the threat of nuclear war.  Following this action the UK will immediately begin the process of dismantling our nuclear weapons, cancel the Trident  programme and remove any foreign nuclear weapons from the UK, ban the export of nuclear weapons related material, ban nuclear armed ships from UK territorial waters, and open the country to the appropriate international inspection agencies.

With paragraph:

PSD533 The Green Party celebrates the passage of the UN Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons  (TPNW) which came into force in January 2021, but laments the lack of enforcement mechanisms at the level of the UN, and the lack of buy-in from the other nuclear states in the world. We would make it the mission of the UK government to forge a practical path towards the nuclear-free future envisaged by the TPNW. In the immediate term we would use our current status as a nuclear state to bring the other nuclear states into a new international treaty designed to build trust between all nuclear states and set us the path towards a sustained reduction in nuclear stockpiles at the global level, a trend which would include the medium-term goal to eliminate the entire nuclear arsenal of the UK. In any eventuality, the Green Party recognises that the balance of nuclear deterrence in the world is in a very fragile equilibrium, and disturbing that equilibrium can have catastrophic consequences. To that end, we would avoid sudden unilateral moves in this area, and as we would move closer towards compliance with the TPNW, we would communicate everything we plan to do to the rest of the international community, well in advance and with full transparency, as a model that others can follow.

PSD534 The Green Party supports the ICAN (International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons) Cities Appeal for a Nuclear Ban, and Green Councillors will advocate for their city or borough to support the Appeal, and to divest council funds from nuclear weapons.
Military use of Drones
PSD540 The Green Party recognises the civilian value of drones but their adaptation as weapon systems causes growing concern since the pace of technological development is far greater than the pace of effective international regulation. We will work through the United Nations to bring a new protocol to the Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons to ensure that these weapon systems remain under meaningful human control and conform to international Humanitarian and Human Rights law.
PSD541 The Green Party believes that there is a moral responsibility and a legal necessity to ensure that all weapon systems remain under meaningful human control at all times. We will therefore work with the United Nations and other concerned states to negotiate a new international treaty to prohibit production and use of fully autonomous weapon systems.
PSD542 The Green Party would stop the use of UK based armed drone operations for covert operations or extrajudicial assassination.
PSD 443 We would introduce legislation to make it illegal to operate armed drones abroad that are launched or controlled from UK controlled territory, or by UK forces, without specific prior Parliamentary authorisation. We will strive for transparency in the way armed drone operations are conducted and insist the UK government acknowledge responsibility for any armed drone operations, guided, launched or otherwise conducted on behalf of the UK government or involving our UK armed forces in any way.
PSD544 Existing drones can be modified to equip them to operate as both weapons platforms and as AI controlled systems. We will review international anti-proliferation measures to prevent the repurposing of civilian drones into lethal weapon systems.
PSD545 Military grade drones designed for the purpose of armed conflict are not appropriate for use against the domestic population of a country, for example in policing or border control operations, and should not be used for such purposes.
Environmental Warfare
PSD 550 The Green Party rejects any form of weather or other environmental modification as a weapon, which is banned under the Environmental Modification Convention of 1978
Arms Trade
PSD560 The Green Party supports the full implementation of the Arms Trade Treaty. We will promote its ratification by more states including all major arms trading countries.
PSD561 The production of military material by the UK should be limited to its own defensive needs and its treaty obligations. Where this makes our arms industry not economically viable on its own, the industry will be taken under public control.

PSD562 Sales and transfer of military equipment to other countries will be controlled by a robust licensing system involving the Foreign Office, Ministry of Defence, a reinstated Department for International Development, and Revenue and Customs. Equipment exported will be of a defensive nature only, or strictly and verifiably for use in international campaigns sanctioned by the UN. Such a licensing system will take proper account of social sustainability criteria, human rights and regional stability issues. There will be a presumption against supply unless an export fulfils all criteria.

PSD 563 The new licensing system will be developed following a consultation with external stakeholders, including civil society, and will be guided by an unqualified commitment to respect human rights, international humanitarian law, transparency and protect the lives of civilians in conflict.

PSD564 We will end the opaque system of Open Licences, and ensure that for any transfer of defensive equipment there is a requirement to report the financial values and quantities of transfers.

PSD 565 We will ensure significant consequences for companies that are non-compliant with regard to export control regulations and provide data on those companies that have been subject to enforcement measures.

PSD566 In line with policy PSD530, the Green Party supports the end of all subsidies to arms exports, closing the Government’s arms export agency, the Defence and Security Organisation (DSO) within the Department for International Trade (DIT) and UK Export Finance (UKEF)
PSD567 We will promote the control and reduction of arms transfers internationally. We will press for the extension of the UN Register of Arms Transfers to include production and stocks, and to significantly extend the number of categories in the interests of greater transparency. We will advocate the setting up of an inspectorate associated with the Register that is independent of the major powers.
