---
motion_title: Peace Security & Defence Voting Paper
amendment_number: 2
# Looking for the amendment status? Update it directly from the motion page!
---

Delete paragraph:

PSD 332 Developments since the 2002 withdrawal of the US from the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile (ABM) Treaty, have meant that ABM sites can be seen as components of a first strike nuclear strategy by preventing any retaliatory strike. As such they are dangerously destabilising systems, have increased international tension and are themselves targets. Therefore, we will  end all ABM related activity in the UK.

Outer Space
PSD 333 The Green Party recognises the importance of regulating outer space. We will work to strengthen the Outer Space Treaty and reinstate the concept of space as a peaceful and neutral province for all humankind.
PSD 334 We will withdraw from aggressive space activities, such as the development of anti-satellite weapons, lasers and other systems that pose a threat to others; continue to work internationally to promote responsible behaviour in space and ensure our own conduct is beyond reproach.
PSD 335 We will work with other countries to clean up orbital debris and will support international treaties prohibiting the intentional destruction of satellites, except by deorbiting them into unpopulated areas or boosting them away from Earth’s orbit, as is current standard best practice.
PSD 336 Space operations are having adverse effects on the ground and upper atmosphere, including the ozone layer. We will support more research to study the effects on the environment and not provide funding or support for projects where significant ethical and environmental risks can be foreseen.
Conversion of Military Industry and Facilities
PSD340 The Green Party is committed to the early conversion of skills and resources which are currently used in the development and production of weapons, so they can be adapted for use in the development of products which are positively beneficial to society and the environment. This policy of military conversion will aim to protect employment and local economies and provide needed expertise in under-resourced areas such as effective responses to climate change.
4 Security
PSD 400 The Green Party believes that it is no longer sufficient to think about security in purely military terms, as a balance of military power, or as a means of securing our own state and our allies against violent threats from outside. In a world of globally interconnected social, humanitarian, economic and ecological challenges, it is evident that even the most powerful military forces cannot offer protection against many of the threats to security which exist today.
PSD 401 The Green Party supports the broad concept of Human Security, meaning the security of people through sustainable development, not arms; through cooperation, not confrontation. We support cooperative working among states and NGO’s to address the growing security threats posed by the Climate and Ecological Emergency. To this end we support the Hague Declaration on Planetary Security and Rethinking Security.
PSD 402 Human Security addresses all the critical issues confronting the world today, including conflict, human rights violations, inequality, authoritarian nationalism, threats to democracy, lack of access to adequate food, shelter or housing, health care, education, clean energy and jobs, pollution, biodiversity loss and climate change.
Terrorism
PSD 410 The Green Party defines terrorism as the use or threat of violence, both in and outside of the UK, designed to influence and intimidate any government and the citizens of that country, for the purpose of advancing a political, religious, racial or ideological cause.
PSD411 The Green Party accepts the need for the UK to defend its people against those who seek to use terror and violence against us. Measures to protect society should not undermine the fundamental values that shape a green society: inclusion, justice, equality and sustainability.
PD412 Police and intelligence investigations of terrorist activity need to be well resourced, and given sufficient freedom to ensure their efficacy. Such investigations must always be carried out in an accountable way, and remain within the law.
PD413 Those accused or found guilty of atrocities, or planning to commit, aid or abet in their execution, should be dealt with under the same principles as those accused of other criminal activities. In particular, those accused of supporting terrorist acts should have normal rights against arbitrary arrest or imprisonment.
PSD414 The Green Party supports the inclusion of crimes of terrorism in the mandate of the International Criminal Court, and in the meantime, supports the use of ad hoc courts under UN auspices on neutral territory.
PSD415 The Green Party recognises how ideologies promoting hate and intolerance can operate as a pathway to terrorism. Vulnerable young people are especially at risk. We would utilise finance streams currently associated with the Prevent Strategy to counter the promotion of hate and intolerance. Such programmes must be developed in close cooperation with affected community groups, aiming to build, not erode, trust within civil society.
PSD416 We would review provisions in the Counter-Terrorism & Security Act 2015 to enable discussions in educational settings about the triggers of terrorism. This has been shown to help reduce the influence of hateful and intolerant ideologies.
PSD417 It should not be a crime simply to have sympathy with the aims of an organisation, though it should be a crime to aid and abet criminal acts or to deliberately fund such acts
PSD418 The Green Party abhors the prospect of cyber-terrorism and will invest in state-of-the-art cyber-defences for all state institutions and infrastructure.
Shared Intelligence
PSD420 The Green Party accepts that Military intelligence plays a crucial role in building rational and informed decisions over the acquisition and use of military resources.
No domestic surveillance of ordinary citizens may be justified as military surveillance. All domestic intelligence must be duly constrained by law and by the customary democratic rights of our country and should not disrupt legitimate peaceful protest.
Cyber-security:
PSD421 The Green Party will ensure that the British military and intelligence services are equipped to properly defend the country against cyber-attacks. The Green Party would under no circumstances support the use of the UK’s cyber-capability against critical infrastructure, the failure of which would endanger civilian life. This includes power generation, environmental stability, healthcare facilities, civil and utility infrastructures.
Climate & Ecological Emergency Impact on Security
PSD 422 We recognise that the Climate and Ecological emergency poses the greatest threat to global and national security in the twenty first century. Humanitarian assistance and disaster relief should be led by and mainly undertaken by civilian bodies under the guidance of the UNOCHA (United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs). Military involvement should primarily be focused on the necessary policing and peace-keeping role during periods of instability until local organisational structures and functions can be restored.
Northern Ireland
PSD 430 The Green Party recognises that the uncertainties over the political future of Northern Ireland continues to pose a security threat within the UK. We recognise that the Good Friday Agreement (GFA) signed in 1998 was a game changing piece of international diplomacy that has mostly facilitated peace for over 20 years and we will continue to support the principles of this agreement.
PSD 431 The Green Party will not support any outcome on negotiations with the European Union over the outstanding issues relating to Brexit and the Irish border that puts the GFA peace accord at risk. We will support arrangements with the EU that support and strengthen peace and security in line with the GFA. We recognise that the responsibility for containing disruption between the two communities and protecting citizens from both sides of the political divide rests with the UK government. Resolutions to the tensions created by Brexit must be negotiated with the communities of Northern Ireland with support from Ireland and the wider EU.
5 Defence
PSD500 Green Party will develop a non-offensive defence strategy that will harmonise with our strategy to promote greater global peace and common security through dialogue, diplomacy and the building of trust. The defence budget will be progressively reapportioned to peace promotion and security priorities, to better combat the real and present threats we face as a result of the Climate and Ecological emergency.
PSD501 The Green Party will bring defence and security policy in line with the Green Party’s overriding policy objective of developing an ecologically sustainable society, by adopting policies of reduction of the impact of military activity, including its carbon emissions. The military will be required to reduce carbon emissions in line with the Green Party’s carbon reduction policy. Research and development into reducing the military carbon footprint will continue in conjunction with allies, to be financed through the UK’s defence budget.
PSD502 The Green Party would ensure that all military related emissions are calculated and published as part of the UK’s carbon footprint, and would press for future Climate Negotiations to make this a mandatory requirement for all states.
Military forces
PSD503 The size of the permanent military force should be appropriate to the threats faced by the UK. Functions for military personnel would include but not be limited to supporting roles in a time of natural crisis, policing fishing quotas, piracy and oceanic environmental regulations. Expertise of the UK military in disaster support will be properly resourced and be offered for UN operations and used in the training of civilian volunteers.
PSD504 The Green Party supports the UK’s accession to the UN Mercenary Convention.
PSD505 Reducing the size of the military estate and in particular working for a reduction in the number of highly sensitive military sites will reduce the current significant cost incurred by the military for protecting these sites. This will also contribute to a reduction of the military carbon footprint.
PSD506 We would reform the reserves to become a body of both civilian and military volunteers, willing to contribute their services in times of domestic or international crisis.
PSD507 Greens believe in the importance of respecting and looking after former service personnel, giving them decent living standards and medical and legal support, to be extended to their dependents in the event of their being maimed or killed. We would provide greater support from the total military budget for people who have served in overseas wars prior to these reforms, to help them manage the trauma of their experiences.
PSD508 The minimum age of recruitment to the Armed Forces should be 18 years or older.
Military Interventions
PSD 510 The Green Party does not accept that military intervention for peacekeeping or conflict prevention can be justified unilaterally. Intervention would only be justified with 2/3 approval of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
PD 511 Any military intervention must be under the auspices of the United Nations. Intervention operations must have a clearly articulated end-state, mutually agreed by both Parliament and the Chiefs of Staff Committee.
Anti-personnel munitions
PSD 521 The Green Party is wholly committed to the Protocol for the Prohibition of the Use in War of Asphyxiating, Poisonous or other Gases, and of Bacteriological Methods of Warfare (known as the Geneva Protocol 1925), which concerns biological and chemical warfare in international armed conflict, and will work to see the treaty extended to prohibit their production, storage or transfer.
PSD 522 The Green Party is wholly committed to the Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907, which concern conventional weapons.
PSD 523 The Green Party deplores the use of explosive weapons in populated areas and fully supports the international dialogue initiated by Ireland to limit the impact of modern warfare on civilian communities. We will adopt and implement policies and practices to restrict and refrain from the use of explosive weapons in populated areas to avoid civilian harm.
PSD 524 The Green Party supports and will promote full international recognition of the 1997 Anti-Personnel Mine Ban Convention and the 2010 Convention on Cluster Munitions.
Nuclear Weapons
PSD530 The Green Party is committed to the United Nations Nuclear non-Proliferation Treaty that came into force in 1970. It is Green Party policy to abide by international law and work to ensure that other countries do the same.
PSD531 The Green Party believes that the use of nuclear weapons would be contrary to International humanitarian law. We therefore reject a deterrence strategy that is based on the threat of indiscriminate destruction of civilian population and infrastructure in other countries as contrary to the laws governing armed conflict.
PSD532 The Green Party notes the risks of miscalculation, misappropriation or malfunction inherent in producing and maintaining nuclear weapons. The Green Party will work with all willing partners globally to progressively limit production capabilities for such weapons, and to collectively decommission existing stockpiles.
PSD533 The Green Party believes that the UK should join the UN Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons (TPNW) which came into force in January 2021. In doing so the UK would join the majority of countries in committing to work to remove the threat of nuclear war. Following this action the UK will immediately begin the process of dismantling our nuclear weapons, cancel the Trident programme and remove any foreign nuclear weapons from the UK, ban the export of nuclear weapons related material, ban nuclear armed ships from UK territorial waters, and open the country to the appropriate international inspection agencies.
