---
motion_title: The UK’s relationship with the European Union
amendment_number: 2
# Looking for the amendment status? Update it directly from the motion page!
---

Move current EU902, to become EU 901. Renumber current EU 901 to become EU902. Insert new EU903 as follows: The Green Party would welcome and support moves to join the Single Market as a step towards eventual return to membership of the EU , but recognises that this does not restore the political influence that the UK has lost as a result of leaving the EU.
Renumber remaining items EU903-909 to become EU904-910.
EU903 Whilst the Green Party is opposed to the objectives, structure and policies of the EU as currently constituted, as long as the U.K. remains a member of the EU the Green Party will stand in elections to the European Parliament and elected Green MEPs will work for fundamental reform of the EU from within.
EU904 So long as the UK remains a member of the EU, The Green Party will campaign and support negotiations to achieve any improvements in the EU which are possible.
EU905 Any UK decision to withdraw from the EU shall be subject to a referendum.
Part 9: Britain’s Exit from the EU/”Brexit”
Background:
EU906: On June 23rd, 2016 the UK voted by a slim majority to leave the European Union. Despite the Prime Minister’s talk of aiming to bring the country together, she has outlined a vision of Brexit that will very likely see inequality in Britain significantly worsen as we are forced to become a corporate tax haven to attract and keep investment from big business and as spending for vital public services such as the NHS is therefore eroded yet further. We reject this vision, in which workers’ and consumers’ rights are also no longer guaranteed, and will campaign strongly during negotiations with the EU for as close a relationship as possible, with particular focus on four key issues which represent priorities for the Party:
i) Maintaining environmental regulation at least as strong as current EU regulation including the passage of an Environment Act/Environmental Protection Act with its own court of arbitration;
ii) Preventing a race to the bottom on tax and ensuring Brexit is not used as an opportunity to turn the UK into a tax haven;
iii) Defending, and advocating Green-minded reforms of, the single market as currently the best means to free movement, migrants rights and a future of bridges not walls, and in particular of protecting the existing reciprocal rights enjoyed by EU citizens living in the UK and UK citizens living in other parts of the EU.
iv) Ensuring that young people have rights to work, travel, and study equal at least to those they enjoy now.
Replace with the following new text (EU 900-908)
EU 900: The Green Party regrets that the UK is no longer a member of the European Union. We continue to believe that the UK would be in a better position socially, environmentally and economically if we had maintained our EU membership. We recognise that a united international response to global issues is even more needed in the contemporary world.
EU 901: The Green Party maintains that full membership of the EU remains the best option for the UK, and we are in favour of pursuing a policy to re-join as soon as the political situation is favourable and the right terms are available.
EU 902: We deplore the UK government’s failure to prepare properly for the massive changes to our economic and social structures caused by the UK’s withdrawal from the EU, putting businesses at risk and damaging citizens’ opportunities. We also regret the decision not to undertake any official monitoring of the economic impacts of leaving the EU.
EU 903: We believe that many of the worst problems resulting from Brexit would be eased by re-joining the customs union and signing up to a comprehensive agreement with the EU covering the protection of human, animal and plant life. We would also support a speedy return to free movement of people between the UK and the European Union, and an urgent restoration of our inclusion in the Horizon Europe Research programme.
EU 904: While we continue to support the principle of subsidiarity, local supply chains, and strengthened local economies, the Green Party believes that the UK should mirror or improve on the legislative rules governing the EU single market and its standards on workers’ rights, health and safety, and environmental protection.
EU 905: In particular, we deeply regret the loss of rights and opportunities afforded to our young people and will campaign to ensure that all young people regardless of background and socio-economic status, continue to enjoy the opportunity to explore the continent they share with those from the 27 EU member states, particularly through continued participation in the Erasmus+ scheme.
