---
motion_title: The UK’s relationship with the European Union
amendment_number: 3
# Looking for the amendment status? Update it directly from the motion page!
---

In EU905 delete "27".

EU 906: The Green Party of England and Wales deplores the use of the UK Internal Market Act to limit the rights of the devolved nations to retain their alignment with the EU, and to go further and faster with environmental protection measures. We are deeply concerned that peace in Northern Ireland is threatened as a result of the UK government’s attempts to undo the Northern Ireland protocol.

EU 907: For as long as the UK remains outside the EU we support close political cooperation with the EU, and in particular working with the EU in addressing the twin crises of climate breakdown and biodiversity loss. We encourage close cooperation with the EU in support of European and global peace and security.

EU 908: We commit to maintaining or rebuilding close and friendly relationships with our European neighbours through groups such as pro-European organisations, professional associations and twinning schemes

Amend existing text EU 907 and associated heading, and delete existing EU 908 as follows: Delete/replace/revise: Short term policies:

EU907: The EU referendum campaign exposed deep divisions in our society and highlighted the growing inequality in our country. We reject the idea that membership of the EU is to blame for these problems and reaffirm our commitment to policies that are designed to share wealth and opportunities more equally and fairly. The Green Party will work with others to heal our divided communities because genuine democracy requires a shared vision of the future we can build together. We want to share our radical policies on farming, food and the countryside, and on trade and globalisation as part of this debate.
EU908: Furthermore, we believe that democracy requires Parliament has ample opportunity to scrutinise the terms of the Brexit deal that emerges from negotiations, and the country be given a further say by way of a ratification referendum on the proposed deal.

Replace with the following amended text
EU909: The EU referendum campaign exposed severe inadequacies in our democratic safeguards, and uncovered deep divisions in our society. It highlighted the growing inequality in our country and widespread unhappiness about the way that the country was being run. We reject the idea that these problems were due to the UK’s membership of the EU and reaffirm our commitment to policies that are designed to share wealth and opportunities more equally and fairly. The Green Party will work with others to heal our divided communities because genuine democracy requires a shared vision of the future we can build together.
