---
motion_title: Standing Orders for the Conduct of the Annual General Meeting
amendment_number: 2
# Looking for the amendment status? Update it directly from the motion page!
---
Delete section entitled H10 Ballot card votes which reads…
‘H10.1 A vote using ballot cards shall be referred to as a ballot card vote or card vote. A ballot card vote is taken by collecting ballot cards of attending members.
H10.2 Such a vote shall be taken if requested by ten Green Party members. Additionally, a ballot card vote may be taken at the discretion of the Chairperson.
H10.3 If ConfComm and SOC agree that there is suitable secure technology, ballot cards may be taken to mean or include ballot cards issued electronically.
H10.4 If votes are taken in order, then votes of attendees shall be counted first, then votes of those registered to vote remotely.’
H11. Participation by members not attending at the AGM venue
H11.1 Plenary sessions shall be recorded and livestreamed where possible.
H11.2 Participating members may be required to book and to pay a fee.
H11.3 Participation by such members in plenaries may include speaking or raising procedural points if facilities to do this have been made available for a particular agenda item and provided speaker slips as defined by SOC have been submitted. Any such participation is at the discretion of the Chair who may call remote participants to speak if in their view this would satisfy the requirements of H12.
H12. Calling members in attendance to speak
H12.1 When calling speakers from the floor, the Chair’s primary duty is to seek to ensure that the AGM is empowered with the information and arguments members need to reach decisions. To this end, the Chair will have regard to: a) whether a member asking to speak has indicated that they have prepared a speech by completing a speaker slip as defined by SOC and submitting it before the start of the debate on the report; b) the value of calling speakers who seek to respond to particular points raised during the debate; c) whether a member asking to speak has participated in the AGM forum discussion.
H12.2 The Chair shall also seek to ensure that the range of speakers called is broadly representative of the party membership. To this end, when calling speakers the Chair shall seek to: a) reflect the gender balance of the party, and other factors relevant in the particular debate, b) give opportunities to speak to members who have not already spoken at the AGM.
Part Three – After the AGM
Section K: Publication of AGM Proceedings K1.1 SOC shall publish the minutes and outcomes of the AGM within two weeks of the close of the AGM.
