---
motion_title: Pathfinder Motion
amendment_number: 3
# Looking for the amendment status? Update it directly from the motion page!
---
In Clause 7 change:

36 to 30

Delete:

and 12 people will be elected every year, using single transferable vote
and add in:

two from each region and Wales plus 10 designated seats for liberation groups. One member for each region and Wales will be elected in sequential years in a regional / Welsh instant run off election as part of the annual ballot and there will be no regional / Welsh election in the third year. Only members for each region or Wales will be eligible to vote for their respective council member.

Delete:
and 12 people will be elected every year, using single transferable vote

Add after:
Any member will be eligible to stand unless that will mean all the councillors for a region / Wales
are the same gender identity, in which case only members whose gender identity differs from the sitting councillors can stand. In the third year there will be elections for 10 representatives from the liberation groups subject to a formula to be decided.

So the first paragraph reads:

7) Council will be increased to 30 people, two from each region and Wales plus 10 designated seats for liberation groups. One member for each region and Wales will be elected in sequential years in a regional / Welsh instant run off election as part of the annual ballot and there will be no regional / Welsh election in the third year. Only members for each region or Wales will be eligible to vote for their respective council member. Each council member’s term will be for 3 years. Any member will be eligible to stand unless that will mean all the councillors from the region/Wales are the same gender identity, in which case only members whose gender identity differs from the sitting councillors can stand. In the third year there will be elections for 10 representatives from the liberation groups subject to a formula to be decided.
