---
motion_title: Reduce the size of the Green Party Executive (GPEx)
amendment_number: 3
# Looking for the amendment status? Update it directly from the motion page!
---
Inserts a new Clause 7 xvii):
xvii) The Chair, and other Executive members that the Regional Council may from time to time invite, shall attend every meeting of the Regional Council to report on the work of the Party Executive, without prejudice to Clause 6 (xiii).
Note: this is to replace the previous Clause xvii, which was ruled OoO.
Amend Clause 9) 1) b) to read: (b) GPEx Chair and Ordinary Members;
Amend Clause 15 Campaigning, to make consistent the relationship with GPEx in light of the changes made to GPEx above, so it reads:
CAMPAIGNING i. There shall be a Green Party Campaigns sub-committee (hereafter called the Campaigns Committee) which shall be convened by a specified member of GPEx as set out in 7 iv, and shall be responsible for organising campaigning, consistent with the Objects and Aims set out in part 3. ii. The Campaigns Committee shall include five members elected at the Annual Conference, with vacancies to be filled by election, or by co-option to be ratified at an intervening conference. iii. The role of the Campaigns Committee shall be to support and enhance agreed messaging and lobbying related to parliamentary and local council campaigns designed to change the law and policies in pursuit of the Political Strategy; and to give local Green Parties and individual members opportunities and resources to take part in non-electoral campaigns on issues of local and national importance. iv. The Campaigns Committee shall provide a report to each Annual General Meeting. v. The Campaigns Committee is a sub-committee of GPEx.
Amend Clause 16 International Committee, to make it a working group of the regional Council consistent with the Regional Council leading on political issues, and to remove repetition in the current constitution and to require a report to be made annually at conference so it reads:
INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE i. There shall be a Green Party International working group (hereafter called the International Committee) which shall be convened by a specified member of the Green Party Regional Council (GPRC). ii. The International Committee shall include five members elected at Annual Conference with vacancies filled by election or by co-option to be ratified at an intervening conference. iii. The role of the International Committee shall be to support the work of the Green Party of England and Wales (GPEW) and organise the International work of the party. This includes, among other things, selecting delegates and / or representatives to meetings of fellow Green parties and groupings of Green parties worldwide. iv. The International Committee shall provide a report to each Annual General Meeting. v. The International Committee is a working group of GPRC.
