---
motion_title: Reduce the size of the Green Party Executive (GPEx)
amendment_number: 1b
# Looking for the amendment status? Update it directly from the motion page!
---

Add new
iv) As part of their nomination, those seeking election as ordinary members must list up to three areas of responsibility they consider they are qualified to take on and would be willing to take on from among the formal set of responsibilities in use by GPEx in office at the time nominations open. If, when nominations close, no candidates list any particular one of the formal set of responsibilities, or it would be impossible to fulfil the requirements of section vi, nominations will be re-opened for a week for candidates who include that/those particular responsibility(ies) among the three they list.   
Add new
v) If following the extended nomination process detailed in section iv above, there are insufficient candidates on the ballot to fill all the formal set of responsibilities set out in section iv above then the election shall proceed to elect the full number of ordinary members as required and will waive any requirements in section vi that cannot be fulfilled.  
Add new
vi) In counting the election for ordinary members, at least one candidate will be elected who has listed each of the formal set of responsibilities in use by GPEx in office at the time nominations open, without any ordinary member needing to take more than two of the formal set of responsibilities.   
Renumber current iv as vii and add at end “From time-to-time individual responsibilities may be re-allocated, even if it means that responsibilities are allocated to an ordinary member who did not list a particular responsibility when seeking election, or the formal set of responsibilities be changed (except that the formal set of responsibilities will always include at least one equalities and diversity officer covering all aspects of equality and diversity other than those allocated to another member of the executive, an international officer, and a Trades Union Liaison Officer).”, so that section reads:
vii) Subject to the collective responsibility of the Executive set out in 7 i), 7 xvi) and elsewhere in section 7 or other clauses of the constitution, within one month of the election of the Ordinary Members, GPEx will set out what their areas of responsibility are such that between the Chair, Treasurer and Ordinary Members, GPEx takes accountability for all sub-committees of GPEx and their individual accountabilities are aligned to the Party’s structures and staff responsibilities. From time-to-time individual responsibilities may be re-allocated, even if it means that responsibilities are allocated to an ordinary member who did not list a particular responsibility when seeking election, or the formal set of responsibilities be changed (except that the formal set of responsibilities will always include at least one equalities and diversity officer covering all aspects of equality and diversity other than those allocated to another member of the executive, an international officer, and a Trades Union Liaison Officer).
Renumber subsequent sections.

iv) Subject to the collective responsibility of the Executive set out in 7 i), 7 xvi) and elsewhere in section 7 or other clauses of the constitution, within one month of the election of the Ordinary Members, GPEx will set out what their areas of responsibility are such that between the Chair, Treasurer and Ordinary Members, GPEx takes accountability for all sub-committees of GPEx and their individual accountabilities are aligned to the Party’s structures and staff responsibilities.  (Sentence cut by SOC as OoO as vague)
v) Procedures for the election of Leader and Deputy Leader(s) or Co-Leaders of the Green Party and their duties and responsibilities are outlined in Section 8 of this Constitution.
vi) Candidates for the GPEx Chair, Treasurer and Ordinary Member positions shall have been a member of the Party for the two complete years preceding the date of close of nominations, and shall be required to complete a standard application form. Nominations of candidates must be supported by the signatures of a minimum of ten members of the Green Party of England and Wales. Or, if they have been a member for a minimum of one complete year preceding the date of close of nominations, their nomination must be supported by a majority of the Green Party Regional Council’s members in attendance at a quorate official meeting of that body.
vii) Members of the Party may be nominated for no more than one GPEx post at any one time, and no member may hold more than one post on the Party Executive at any one time. Members of the Party Executive may not hold any other elected office in the Party at national level. Members of the Party may be nominated for both Leader and Deputy Leader(s).
viii) The Party Executive shall meet as necessary and at least once every two months.
ix) A quorum of the Party Executive shall comprise a majority of the total membership eligible to vote.
x) The Party Executive may from time to time create such sub-committees as it considers necessary for the efficient conduct of its business and shall determine their terms of reference, powers, duration and composition at least annually, retaining responsibility for the conduct of such sub-committees and accounting for the conduct of those sub-committees to the Annual Conference. Any such sub-committee shall include at least one member of the Regional Council.  
xi) The Party Executive shall appoint the following posts: a) a National Election Agent; b) The Party Executive shall nominate persons to Spokesperson roles, who shall each be responsible for covering a designated area of policy. They shall be appointed subject to ratification by the Green Party Regional Council, who may approve or reject any nomination. The Regional Council may recall any appointed Spokesperson. The Young Greens Co-Chairs shall be the Youth and Students Spokespeople. (sub clause cut by SOC as OoO as vague)
xii) The Executive shall elect from among its elected members a deputy chair, to assist the chair in their duties, and to act in the role of the chair at any time when the chair is unable to do so. Such elections are to take place at least annually and by the end of November each year (clause cut by SOC as OoO as contrary to the constitution and ambiguous).
