---
motion_title: Reduce the size of the Green Party Executive (GPEx)
amendment_number: 4
# Looking for the amendment status? Update it directly from the motion page!
---
Delete - which shall be convened by a specific member of GPRC
Insert - which shall be convened by a specific member of GPEx

Insert - Members of international committee will elect one committee member (or two as a job share) to be the first point of contact for international work within the party and internationally. They will be known as the international convenor(s). The international convenor(s) will have responsibility and delegated authority to liaise with international Green Parties and organisations, to further develop relationships with them, in particular with the European Green Party, the Global Greens Network and our sister parties in the UK. The international convenor(s) will report to the specified member of GPEx.

Delete - The international committee shall include 5 members elected at Annual Conference
Insert - The international committee shall include 7 members elected at Annual Conference

Delete -  The international committee is a working group of GPRC
Insert - The international committee is a sub-committee of GPEx

Add new Clause 17, renumbering other clauses in the constitution as needed, to create a Trade Union Liaison Committee to coordinate the Party’s relationship with the trade union movement and other workers’ organisations: 17 TRADE UNION LIAISON COMMITTEE I. There shall be a Green Party Trade Union Liaison working group (hereafter called the Trade Union Liaison Committee) which shall be convened by a specified member of GPRC, who is to have responsibility for Trades Unions. II. The Trade Union Liaison Committee shall include five members elected at Annual Conference with vacancies filled by election or by co-option to be ratified at an intervening conference. III. The role of the Trade Union Liaison Committee shall be to support the work of GPEW and coordinate and strengthen the Party’s work with the trade union movement and other workers’ organisations. IV. The Trade Union Liaison Committee shall provide a report to each Annual General Meeting. V. The Trade Union Liaison Committee is a working group of GPRC.
Amend Clause 20 Equalities and Diversity Committee , to make consistent the relationship with GPEx in light of the changes made to GPEx above, so it reads:
EQUALITIES EQUITY DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION (EEDI) COMMITTEE i. There shall be a Green Party Equalities Equity Diversity and Inclusion sub-committee (hereafter called the EEDI Committee) which shall be convened by a specified member of GPEx as set out in 7 iv. ii. The EEDI Committee shall include five members elected by Annual Conference with vacancies filled by election or by co- option to be ratified at an intervening conference. iii. The EEDI Committee shall also include a representative of each group that is recognised as a Members Working Group by the EEDI Committee. iv. The EEDI Committee shall provide a report to each Annual Conference. v. The role of the EEDI Committee shall be to support the work of GPEx to improve Equalities Equity Diversity and Inclusion within the Green Party.  
Transition
At the next Annual Ballot following this motion being passed, those members standing down, comprising half of GPEx, will be replaced by the seven ordinary members elected as set out in this motion. The accountabilities set out in Clause 7 iv) shall exclude the responsibilities of those members of GPEx who still have a year left to serve. In the following Annual Ballot, the remaining half of the existing GPEx members shall stand down and elections conducted for the new Chair and Treasurer elected as set out in this motion.
