---
motion_title: Grow GPRC and make it the core of the party’s politics
amendment_number: 4
# Looking for the amendment status? Update it directly from the motion page!
---

In iv)
insert before “36” in the first sentence: “ordinary”.
insert after “members” in the first sentence: in addition to the role holders outlined in section vi below.
So that it reads:
iv) The Council shall consist of 36 ordinary members in addition to the role holders outlined in section vi [SOC Note – relevant section has since been renumbered] below. Each council member’s term will be for three years and 12 people will be elected every year, using a single transferable vote process, as part of the annual ballot. Any member who has been a member for over two years will be eligible to stand.
Insert new sections vi – ix and renumber:
vi) In order to preserve the regional spread of the council, in determining the results of annual ballot to elect ordinary members of the council the following requirement will be applied. At the point of the calculating the results of the election each year, the results shall, subject to the caveats outlined in section viii, provide for there to be amongst the membership of the ordinary members of the council:
a. At least 1 member of Wales Green Party
b. At least 1 member of each English Regional Party
vii) If at the close of nominations set out in Section 16 Internal Elections and Annual Ballot, part 7 there are insufficient nominations submitted for election to the Council in order that the election can satisfy the requirements set out in part 4 above, then nominations will be re-opened and the requirements to satisfy the constitution published to all members. This re-opened nomination period shall close at noon 5-week days prior to the opening of voting.
viii) If following the extended nomination process detailed in section vii above, there are insufficient candidates on the ballot to satisfy the requirements set out in section vi above then the election shall proceed to elect the full number of ordinary members as required and will waive the requirements in section vi for this ballot for that particular region, or Wales, as applicable. There will be a significant communication campaign from the council over the subsequent year within the region(s) concerned, or Wales, regarding the need for candidates to put themselves forward.
ix) If a member of the council moves to a region of England where they had not been resident at the time of their election, or into Wales, they will continue to be a member of the council. At the next annual election, their current location of membership at time of nomination will be used to determine whether requirements under vi have been met.
SOC Note: a note on transition attached to this amendment has been removed to Appendix 1 as background
And to amend Clause 9 as follows: Add to Existing Clause 9) 1): (f) Members of The Council;
Transition Following the passing of this motion we will transition to the new format of the Council as follows: At the first Annual Ballot following this motion being passed by conference the first twelve members of the Council will be elected in accordance with the process set out in this motion. Any existing members of GPRC will transition to become full voting members of the Council with their terms expiring in line with their existing mandate. If any such councillor ceases to be a member of the council, the region which elected them shall not replace them. At the second Annual Ballot following this motion being passed by conference 24 members shall be elected. Immediately after this election the councillors shall be divided evenly and randomly into two classes (Class one and Class three). The terms of all councillors in Class one shall end in one year and for those in Class three shall end in three years. At all following Annual Ballots, only the seats belonging to councillors whose term has expired shall be up for election.
