---
motion_title: Grow GPRC and make it the core of the party’s politics
amendment_number: 2
# Looking for the amendment status? Update it directly from the motion page!
---
Replace 6)vi as proposed:
“The Leader plus Deputy Leader(s) or Co-Leaders, Wales Green Party Leader and the two co-chairs of the Young Greens as a job share will all be voting members of the Council. Where the position is a job-share, the holders of the office shall have a single vote. The Chair and Treasurer of the Executive, plus the CEO will be non-voting members of the Council.”
With the following:
"The Green Party Leader (or Co-Leaders), the Deputy Leader (or Deputy Leaders), the Wales Leader, and the Young Greens Co-Chairs will all be voting members of the Council. Where the position is a job-share, the role will have a single vote. The two Young Greens Co-Chairs will have one vote each. The Chair and Treasurer of the Executive, plus the CEO will be non-voting members of the Council.”
Delete Clause viii viii) The Regional Council shall elect by secret ballot from within its number two Co-chairpersons who have different gender identities, and shall appoint a secretary. and replace it with viii) Every year at its AGM the Council shall elect by secret ballot from within its number two Co-chairpersons who have different gender identities, and shall appoint a secretary.
Amend Clause xiii) xiii) The Regional Council may request with reasonable notice any member of the Green Party Executive to attend one of its meetings to report on their area of responsibility. So it reads xiii) The Council may request with reasonable notice any member of the Green Party Executive to attend one of its meetings to report on their area of responsibility. The Council may request the same from any regional coordinator or the chair(s) of any recognised affiliated group, all of whom may send another officer in their place.
Add Clause xv xv) The Council will be run according to its Standing Orders. Any change in its Standing Orders needs to be agreed by a two-thirds majority and be ratified by the following Conference.
