---
section:
number: 18
title: Draft Voting Paper - Migration Policy
spaces: https://spaces.greenparty.org.uk/s/autumn-conference-2022-agenda-forum/?contentId=101504
status: final
coproposers: 10
---
## Background
**Need for the Policy**

The chapter in PSS entitled Migration (MG) sets out the humane
immigration rules a Green Party in government will implement. However,
this dates largely from 1990, with a very few light revisions, and
needs updating.

Conference passed an enabling motion in Spring 2019 enabling this
Policy Working Group to rewrite this chapter and that on Refugees &
Asylum (RA). The rewrite of the RA chapter was approved by the Autumn
2022 conference and is now published [here](https://policy.greenparty.org.uk/ra.html).
We are now asking members for comments on this rewritten Migration (MG) chapter.

## Synopsis

To delete from the Migration chapter in PSS everything from MG 100 to
MG 454, and substitute the motion text below.

## Motion

### Principles

*MG100* The Green Party wants to see a world without borders, until
this happens the Green Party will implement a fair and humane system
of managed immigration where people can move if they wish to do so.

*MG101* The Green Party believes that migration is not a criminal
offence under any circumstances.

*MG102* The Green Party will treat all migrants fairly and humanely
and without discrimination.

*MG103* The Green Party is opposed to forced migration and forced
repatriation.

*MG104* The Green Party desires to ensure the history of empire and
colonialism is taught properly in all schools, and in particular how
immigration policies have been used to increase the wealth and
well-being of the UK at the expense of less wealthy countries.

### Objectives

*MG200* The Green Party seeks to establish a system that recognises
that all migrants are citizens in waiting and therefore supports and
encourages them to put down roots in their new home.

*MG201* The Green Party accepts we all have a collective
responsibility for the climate emergency and that the UK has a duty to
support people forced to move due to the changes in their home
environment, whether internally or from abroad.

### Administrative

*MG300* The functions of the Home Office will be divided between a
Department of the Interior and a Department of Migration, which, among
other duties, will handle all visa applications.

#### Applications
*MG301* All visas can be applied for in country

*MG302* All fees charged for visas will be at cost and not for profit.

*MG303* The visa application process will be simplified to remove the
need for legal advice in the majority of circumstances.

*MG304* Physical visas will be offered in addition to digital
documents

*MG305* Minimum income requirements will be removed from visa
applications as well as any benefits from having a higher income.

*MG306* Language requirements will be removed from visa resident
applications. Language requirements will be present for Settled Status
applications with exceptions on medical and age grounds. Free language
classes will be made available.

*MG307* A Green Party led Government would will ensure that sufficient
staff and resources are available to effect these policies

*MG308* The Department of Migration will be responsible for giving
free advice and support when a person's visa is due to expire to help
them make the next steps.

*MG309* Unless standard exclusions apply, no person will be held in
detention because of their immigration status.

#### Standard Exclusions
*MG310* Visa applications from specific individuals may be rejected on
grounds of public safety. These grounds are restricted to serious
crime and threats to national security.

### Visitors

*MG400* All arrivals to the UK without a visa will be granted a
visitor visa for a period of three months regardless of where they
have come from unless standard exclusions apply. They will then have
this period of time to apply for a different visa if they so wish.

*MG401* Visitors will not have access to welfare benefits or Universal
Basic Income.

*MG402* Visitors will have access to the NHS for urgent and medically
necessary procedures only.

### Visa Residents

*MG500* For the purposes of this policy, visa residents are defined as
migrants who are not yet British Citizens and who hold student, work
or family visas.

*MG501* All visa residents will have the right to vote in elections
and referenda

*MG502* Access to the NHS will be free and comprehensive for all visa
residents.

*MG503* Any No Recourse to Public Funds conditions will be abolished
and visa residents will have access to welfare benefits or Universal
Basic Income.

*MG504* All Visa Residents will be able to apply for settled status
after five years.

#### Students
*MG505* Students with an offer of a place from a recognised education
institution will automatically receive a visa to study unless standard
exclusions apply

*MG506* Residents on student visas will be permitted to stay for three
years after their studies are completed to look for work.

#### Workers
*MG507* Workers with a confirmed contract of employment satisfying UK
employment laws will automatically receive a visa to work unless
standard exclusions apply.

*MG508* Residents on work visas can apply for different jobs, or if
made redundant have six months to look for work automatically as part
of their visa conditions.

#### Family
*MG509* Visa residents will have the right to bring members of their
family to the UK who would normally live with them in their country of
origin, or would do so if it were permitted by law or custom.

### Residents with Settled Status

*MG600* Residents with settled status are no longer subject to
immigration rules.

*MG601* Residents with settled status have the same access to
benefits, student finance, and the NHS as British Citizens.

*MG602* Children of residents with settled status will have access to
student finance for their higher education and will not be liable for
international fees.

*MG603* Any resident with settled status can apply for citizenship if
they wish to do so.

### Citizenship

*MG701* All children born in the UK are automatically British
Citizens.

*MG702* A Green Party led Government will commit to tackling
statelessness and will ensure that once citizenship is granted it
cannot be removed.

*MG703* Dual citizenship is permitted.

### Undocumented Migrants

*MG700* Undocumented migrants will be given free advice and support to
help them to regularise their status without penalty for being
undocumented.

*MG701* Undocumented migrants who have been in the UK for over five
years will be invited to apply for settled status unless the standard
exclusions apply,

### Other

*MG800* We will encourage periods of temporary residence in the UK and
abroad, particularly by young people, to promote intercultural
awareness..

*MG801* The Green Party will recognise the contribution of migrants
and their descendants to the UK by making the 1st Monday on or after
22nd June, Windrush Day, a public holiday.
